Onions (Allium cepa) are a widely consumed bulb vegetable of the Liliaceae family. This crop is cultivated all around the world, with various centers of domestication reported in the Middle East, Southeast Asia, and Africa. Currently, China and South Korea are the biggest producers of onions (FAO 2019). Although onions flower and complete their life cycle in two years (biennial), the bulb that is consumed is usually cultivated after the first year of growth. The bulb is a compact and fleshy underground stem that acts as a nutrient reserve for its second-year growth.

Dry bulb onions are consumed both raw and cooked and market classes are red, white, yellow, and sweet. Many varieties exist with varying color and phytonutrient composition, imparting different flavors and culinary properties. Some[B2]  examples include red, yellow, white, Maui, and Vidalia cultivars. Spring or green onions (shoots) are also frequently consumed. In addition to genetic differences between cultivars, growing conditions play a role in onion development. Onions are broadly classified into short-medium-, and long-day types, which are combined with geographical considerations for optimal growing (Shock 2011).

Onions are consumed in a variety of preparations, including raw, pickled, fried, sauteed, or cooked and incorporated into other dishes. Different culinary outcomes warrant different onion types, however, they can all be generally described as pungent vegetables. This pungency is due to the presence of sulfur-containing thiol compounds, e.g., S-alk(en)yl-l-cysteine sulfoxides (Rose 2019). Organosulfur glycosides, phenols, and flavonoids have bacteriocidal and bacteriostatic effects. It has been postulated that these compounds protect the developing bulb from the soil microbiota. The content and composition of these organosulfur compounds also influence flavor and aroma.

Many of these organosulfur compounds also have demonstrated health benefits, associated with anti-cancer, anti-diabetic, anti-inflammatory, and cytoprotective outcomes (Jacob 2006). In addition to organosulfur, onions contain health-promoting polyphenolics, such as anthocyanins (purple/red onions) and flavonoids (Ren 2017). The all-to-familiar crying that may come while chopping onions can be attributed to a plant cellular defense mechanism. In response to cell damage, inactive sulfur compounds are enzymatically cleaved by alliinases to produce volatile aerosol compounds (Block 2010). Aside from phytonutrients that are important in plant defense and human health, onions provide carbohydrates and minerals. The high carbohydrate content confers a sweetness to onions that is accentuated when cooked (e.g., caramelized onions, French onion soup).

Onions are hardy with an approximate shelf life of three months if stored in cool, dry conditions. Field curing causes physiological changes in the outer leaflets of the bulb where the “skin” or crust forms.  The phytonutrients in the skin are typically highly concentrated in comparison to the inner leaflets of the bulbs. 

It should also be noted that onions are still susceptible to many plant pathogens. The skin is an excellent barrier in keeping out pathogens, but there are pre-and post-harvest rots and other qualitative issues primarily caused by farming practice, atypical weather events and post-harvest activities like shipping and sorting. Common diseases include fungal botrytis, downey mildew, and fusarium rot (PSU PlantVillage).