The soybean, soy bean, or soya bean (Glycine max) is a species of legume native to East Asia, widely grown for its edible bean, which has numerous uses.

Traditional unfermented food uses of soybeans include soy milk, from which tofu and tofu skin are made. Fermented soy foods include soy sauce, fermented bean paste, nattō, and tempeh. Fat-free (defatted) soybean meal is a significant and cheap source of protein for animal feeds and many packaged meals. For example, soybean products, such as textured vegetable protein (TVP), are ingredients in many meat and dairy substitutes.

Soybeans contain significant amounts of phytic acid, dietary minerals and B vitamins. Soy vegetable oil, used in food and industrial applications, is another product of processing the soybean crop. Soybean is the most important protein source for feed farm animals (that in turn yields animal protein for human consumption).

The first stage of growth is germination, a method which first becomes apparent as a seed's radicle emerges.This is the first stage of root growth and occurs within the first 48 hours under ideal growing conditions. The first photosynthetic structures, the cotyledons, develop from the hypocotyl, the first plant structure to emerge from the soil. These cotyledons both act as leaves and as a source of nutrients for the immature plant, providing the seedling nutrition for its first 7 to 10 days.
There is one crop that impacts our lives daily. Do you know which crop it is? The soybean! Soybeans are used in nearly everything – food, cleaning products, hair care products, and much more. This bean impacts so much of our lives. As you sip on some soy milk, check out these facts about the soybean.

1.This crop is a part of the legume family.
2.Also known as the soya bean, it is native to East China.
3.Soybeans were first domesticated in China around 7000 BC.
4.The legume was first introduced to the United States in 1804.
5.Soybeans were first grown in the United States as cattle feed.
6.The United States produces 55% of the world’s soybeans.
7.The crop is mainly grown in midwestern states.
8.Brazil and Argentina are also major soybean producers.
9.While the legume and grow in most soils, it does best in warm, fertile, well-drained, sandy loam.
10.Soybeans have a variety of uses. They are used in ink, plastics, textiles, candles, cleaning products, and much more.
11.Soybean oil is the second most important vegetable oil. The first is palm oil.
12.In 1935, Henry Ford’s engineers developed a plastic that used soybeans. This plastic was used for the frames of his cars.
13.April is National Soy Foods Month.